Thank you.
So the good news is
that--can you all hear me?
Yep.
The spoken language technologies,
in case you haven't noticed,
are in Mac OS X.
We got them there.
Thank you.
What we're going to do today is describe
briefly the speech recognition and
the speech synthesis that are there.
We're going to give you guidelines
about where to use them in your
applications and why you would want
to use them in your applications.
And we're going to actually lead you
through the process of getting your
applications talking and listening.
So let's start off by doing a
demo of what we've got over here.
Can we switch to-- oh,
I'm supposed to do it, aren't I?
I'm supposed to do it.
There we go.
The user interface to speech
recognition is this round
window that you may have seen.
This replaces the face that some of
you might be familiar with in OS 9.
It consists of three parts.
The middle, you might be able to see,
says Escape.
This shows you the listening mode.
There are two different listening
modes with speech recognition,
what we call Push-to-Talk mode
and Continuous Listening.
In Push-to-Talk mode,
it's only listening when
you hold down a key.
It says ESC, which means that by default
it's the escape key.
Users can configure that.
In Continuous Listening mode,
it's listening all the time,
and optionally you can
have it wait for a keyword,
like computer,
before you speak your commands.
I am using Push-to-Talk mode here,
and I recommend that you do
as well when you're demoing.
So that when you're
explaining things to people,
it's not try to recognize commands,
that you're actually intending to
other people and not to the computer.
What time is it?
It's 10:30.
What day is it?
It's Thursday, May 24th.
Show me what to say.
Okay, the other part of the feedback
is this speech commands window,
which has two halves.
The top half, which is scrollable,
shows what it has recognized,
and if it speaks back to you,
what it says to you.
The bottom half,
which also is scrollable,
and all of which is
resizable by the user,
at last.
Thank you, Cocoa.
Shows what you can say.
There are now disclosure triangles,
so that it no longer scrolls
off the bottom of the screen.
The middle item there,
I don't know whether you can see,
it says Speakable Items.
That shows the commands that
can be spoken all of the time,
no matter what application is running.
I mentioned at the start,
I spoke what time is it, what day is it.
There are items down in there.
These are actually kept in
the Speakable Items folder.
Let's take a look at it.
Open the Speakable Items folder.
There it is.
So any item that is in this
Speakable Items folder can
be launched by speaking it.
And it's just the same
as double-clicking on it.
Applications, aliases, documents,
servers, URLs, anything that you can
launch by double-clicking,
you can now launch by speech on OS X.
The real power of this is that users
can customize it to the way they
work by dragging their own items
into the Speakable Items folder.
In addition, just like in OS 9 now,
the Speakable Items folder
itself contains a folder called
Application Speakable Items.
This contains folders which
are named by applications.
The items in those folders
are only speakable when that
application is in the foreground.
That's shown in the speech
commands window in the top item,
the top disclosure triangle.
So you see at the moment-- let me
close the others-- that it says finder,
and the finder is in the foreground.
Let me demonstrate this in action.
I'll switch to my browser, and as I do,
you watch the items there change.
Open my browser.
There, so it now says Internet Explorer,
and there are some different items there.
This is an opportunity
for you developers.
You can make application-specific folders
for your applications and populate those
folders with scripts or other commands
that control just your application.
They won't be speakable
when your application itself
is not in the foreground.
Oh, I'd like to encourage you to
explore this by yourselves.
I just want to show you one other thing.
Hide this application.
And that is that you may have
noticed we shipped one game,
and that is chess.
Oh, in telling you this,
I should point out,
we keep track of all the
applications that you've launched
since we started--actually,
restarted the machine,
and you can switch to any application,
running or not, just by saying its name.
Switch to
So the chess application you
might have seen mentioned and
demoed in the keynote on Monday,
one of the keynotes,
as being an example of
a good user interface,
Aqua quality.
And one of the things about it is
that you can control it by speech.
Porn D2 to D4.
Knight B1 to C3.
What's it going to do to that?
Let's see.
It's thinking.
It's thinking harder than I am.
But it's a better player than I am, too.
One of the things I like about
this is there's one thing I can
do with this that I can't do when
I'm playing with real people,
and that's the following.
I can say, take back move.
Whoa.
My 12-year-old son does not let me
do that when I'm playing with him.
Okay, let's move on.
So what speech is there in Mac OS X?
Bear with me.
There are a lot of people at
this conference this year who
are new to the Mac OS platform.
Some of you who are already
familiar with the platform
will know already what we have.
So here's just a brief mention for
those that aren't yet familiar with it.
We have Speech Synthesis
and Speech Recognition.
The Speech Synthesis will take any text
and convert it into audible speech.
There are 22 different voices.
They range from adult male and adult
female through to voices that sing and
sound like aliens and novelty voices.
And we have Speech Recognition.
There are a number of
characteristics about the
Speech Recognition that are important.
First is it's speaker independent.
That means you don't have
to train it to your voice.
You just take it out of
the box and it just works.
The Mac was and remains the only
computer platform I know of that
you can just take out of the box,
put on the desk, and command by voice.
It's continuous speech.
You don't have to pause between words.
It uses a far-field microphone.
This is a technical point,
but a very important point.
Speech recognition is very
sensitive to background noise.
So sensitive that all other recognizers
that I know of require that the users
purchase and use a noise-canceling,
close-talking, head-mounted microphone.
We tune up our recognizer to work
with the in-built microphones that
are built into the iMacs and the
other CPUs that Apple delivers.
That means that we are getting
the background noise that other
recognizers aren't getting.
So we have several layers of software
to adaptively model and subtract
and deal with that background noise.
But there are limits on how much
background noise we can deal with.
So we've tuned it up to work well in the
situations where most of our users are
using their computers-- in the office,
at home.
If you have users or customers
who are using speech recognition
in noisy environments,
such as in classrooms,
then it might be pushing the
limits of the head-mounted
microphones a little bit too far.
One such environment, for example,
is giving a presentation in an
auditorium with a 300-watt sound
system that's providing a slapback
echo from the back of the hall.
And so this is one of those
environments where I've been using
this head-mounted microphone.
This one is produced by VXI.
They have worked quite a lot with
us over the last couple of years
to optimize their microphones to
work with our speech recognition.
And so you can direct your users,
if you want to,
those as an alternative solution.
Our speech technologies currently
are US English only on OS X.
So what's new?
In speech synthesis,
we've done a few things.
We merged the Macintalk 3 and
the Macintalk Pro codebases
into a single codebase.
This has got a couple of advantages.
One is it means that we have, at last,
a totally new codebase.
We have divested ourselves of deep,
intricate, uninterpretable legacy code
and positioned ourselves to,
at last, be able to fold in the research
improvements that we've been making in
speech synthesis in the last few years.
So we've got ourselves into a
new platform ready to go forward.
An immediate benefit right
now is that you get consistent
behavior across voices.
A lot of developers have said to me that
they change from one voice to another,
and words are pronounced differently,
or the intonation is different,
or that will no longer happen.
All the pro voices are now
just the high-quality versions.
So what was Victoria high-quality
in OS 9 is now called Victoria,
and there is no lower-quality
version in OS X.
That means the speech is crisper,
it's easier to understand,
it's more robust in the
presence of background noise.
People can understand it
without it being so loud.
And we've improved the
pronunciation in a number of ways.
We've enlarged the dictionary
from about 20,000 words to about,
what, 120,000?
Jerome's work down here.
The morphological
decomposition is now recursive.
If you want to know what that means,
ask us in the question time.
It's fascinating.
Really, really, it's way cool.
It's a multiplier on the
effectiveness of the dictionary.
And the letter-to-sound rules
are now automatically trained
based on the new large dictionary,
rather than handwritten based
on one linguist's intuitions.
For speech recognition,
we also have a benefit here.
We have factored out that pronunciation
subsystem from the speech synthesis
and made it a separate subsystem
that's now shared between speech
synthesis and speech recognition.
This means, first of all,
it reduces the overall RAM,
which improves performance of
everything running on the platform.
It means the recognition is more
accurate because the pronunciation
subsystem is expecting the correct
pronunciations for more words.
And it gives consistent behavior across
speech recognition and speech synthesis.
Developers have said to me,
I was prototyping some spoken
commands for my application,
and one of the commands was
not recognized very well.
And I thought that perhaps the
recognizer was not listening
for the correct pronunciation.
So to find out what the
recognizer was listening for,
I typed my command into
your text-to-speech system,
and sure enough, it was spoken with an
incorrectly pronounced word.
Well, up until today,
that's been irrelevant.
Now it is relevant.
Now, if you want to know whether
the recognizer is expecting
the correct pronunciation,
then type the word or the command
into the speech synthesis,
and it will tell you the way
the recognizer thinks people
will pronounce that word.
The user interface has
been completely revised,
as I showed you.
And there's an improvement
to speakable items.
We've added XML-based command
files that you associate a spoken
command with a keystroke sequence.
Kevin Ai can later in this presentation
show you that in some more detail.
I want to talk about why you should
use speech in your applications.
There are two classes of applications,
I think, from our perspective.
There are applications that
are centered around speech,
where speech technology is central to
the user's experience and central to
the value that application delivers.
And then there's a huge
number of applications,
I think most of you write,
for which speech is not
centrally relevant at all.
And I'd like you to think about
places that you can use speech
in those applications as well.
Chess is an example.
Speech is not really relevant to chess,
but we added it and people say, "Hey,
that's cool." If you add
speech to your application,
then you'll increase the
number of potential users and
that increases your market.
For example, younger users will find your
application more approachable.
People with disabilities will be
able to use your applications.
And people who are less familiar
with computation will be less scared
of trying out your application.
Speech is a very natural
form of communication.
We've all been talking and
listening since we were,
what, two years old?
Wait, one and a half years old?
Speech enables you in your
application to move beyond
the limits of point and click.
There's nothing wrong
with point and click.
In fact, it's very good at letting you
control things that you can
see on the user interface and
reach with a single gesture.
But there are lots of things that
you want people to control that they
can't see to point to to click on.
Speech gives you a way to get past that.
If you think about it, clicking--
It's rather like grunting.
We're turning our back on, what,
about 200,000 years of human evolution.
Because when I click on things,
I'm just going, uh, uh, uh.
That's true.
I'd like to think that we've
come somewhat further than that.
Similarly, speech output, I think,
can be a lot better than just beep.
So many of us are still
using alert sounds.
Well, beep was the mentality of 1960s,
when all the computers had
was this tiny little speaker.
We've come forward since then.
Speech gives you a way to bring
yourselves into the 21st century.
And conversation is an
appropriate modality for
delegating tasks to a computer.
We'll illustrate that a bit more shortly.
So what are some of the ways that you can
use speech synthesis in your application?
One is notifications.
We recommend that you judiciously
get the user's attention back if
the user's attention has wandered
away from your applications.
Some of you may have known
about or experienced talking
alerts that we did in OS 9.
Now, there's a slider that lets you set
how long between the delay between an
alert coming up and it being spoken.
You may want that longer or
shorter than the default,
but the point is you normally
should not hear any speech,
except when your attention wanders
and the computer wants your attention,
and then if you don't respond,
it gets your attention back.
You can use notifications
for asynchronous events.
For example,
in the AOL Instant Messenger,
if your buddies enter your chat room,
then it will announce that
with our speech synthesis.
It will say,
Buddy Smith just entered the room.
You can use speech synthesis to give
additional feedback for younger users,
and we have found,
and our users have found,
that applications for the 6 to 12
space become accessible for the K3 to
6 space if they don't change anything
but just read out the text messages
that they're putting up on the screens.
And you can use speech
synthesis for proofreading.
For example,
you have an application where
people are entering data,
say a spreadsheet,
and people are entering
budget figures in a column.
Allow them to select that column and
have it read back so they can just
check what they were entering to make
sure that there aren't any errors.
Speech will give your
application more accessibility
for those with disabilities.
I think that's pretty obvious.
And it's really cool in games.
You saw that we did it with chess.
There are a lot of games already
that are using speech for things like
cheat codes and changing weapons.
Use speech for
non-time-dependent control.
I don't think it would be
appropriate to use speech
recognition in your game to say,
"Fire, now!
Quick, quick, left, quick, right!
No, no, left!" But you can do it for that
as well if you want to try it.
In noisy games,
these headsets are probably the
right thing to do so the speech
recognition doesn't confuse your
commands with . There are a lot of
people who are successfully using
speech in education applications.
I think there are a lot more of you
with education applications that
could take advantage of All right.
One example would be the DyneEd product,
which is using speech recognition
for pronunciation correction
for adults learning English.
It's way cool.
Check it out.
You can use speech to enhance
the web browsing experience.
For navigating within a browser,
if those of you who've explored will see
that we actually ship a couple of spoken
commands for Internet Explorer that
let you do some simple navigation.
If you have a browser,
you can do a much better job
than we do by working within it.
For example,
people could speak the links,
jump to pages by topic,
read out web pages.
And there's a big
opportunity with voice XML.
The enterprise industry that's
moving more and more of its
information onto web access is
now doing two or three different
versions of all of their websites.
They're doing the HTML version,
they're doing a WAP version for
portable digital assistants to
access their stuff via wireless,
and they're making voice
XML versions so that people can
ring up the web page and have the
information read out over the phone.
The way this is done is by... an
extra set of tags that are in the web
pages that are just the thing that you
need to interpret for speech access.
And you can do that on the
desktop with a Mac using our APIs.
It would be pretty straightforward
because the infrastructure and
the hard work has all been done
for you by the web developers.
We recommend that you think about
using speech for form filling as
an alternative to people filling
out things with pop-up menus.
You can now have people speak
the contents of each field,
and you can use a constrained
language model for each field to
increase the recognition accuracy.
For example, the person could say,
create a new customer record,
and the computer could then respond,
what type?
And then narrow down its search to
just the alternative customer records.
The person could say, corporate account.
And then the next field
would be payment schedule,
and the person could then say, 30 days.
And at that stage,
the recognition model was
changed again to just listen
for possible payment schedules.
Okay.
There are a lot of tasks
where people's eyes are busy,
their hands are busy.
For example,
you're in a graphics program.
You're drawing.
You've got the mouse down.
You're putting a line across an object.
And you want to move it around,
send it to the back,
or change the brush size.
When the eyes are busy
and the hands are busy,
speech gives you another way for
your users to control your app.
So at this stage,
I'd like to invite Sal Soghoian up.
Sal Soghoian is the
AppleScript product manager,
and he's going to show you some way
cool ways that he's been using speech.
Sal.
Is this on?
Great.
Hi.
This is amazing that I got up
this early for this whole thing.
Those that know me know that
it's an impressive feat.
What we're going to be showing today is,
can you switch me to this,
or me switch me to this?
is how to use AppleScript with speech.
That's one of the best integrations
on Mac OS is the ability to use
these two technologies together.
And on Mac OS 9,
we introduced the ability to have
a script listen for a response
and based upon the user's response
perform a different set of actions.
And incorporated a technology
called the SpeechListener.
So I'm going to show a couple
scripts today that use this
technology on Mac OS X.
And both scripts will involve a
conversation to get a task done.
The first one is a rather straightforward
example where I ask the script for some
music and it prompts me with a series of
questions and we have some music played.
So let's see if my voice is back where
it should be and we'll try this out.
Some music please.
[Transcript missing]
So in this example, the script starts up,
it got the information about
which artists were available,
held it into memory,
and said which artist or category.
When I said Christine Kane,
it matched that,
then queried and found out which songs
were available by Christine Kane,
held that into memory,
and then said which song I said Tucson,
that matched, and then it had the
song play with iTunes.
So this is a simple example.
You've got to program in a certain
amount of grief with these things,
just to keep you honest.
So there's an example of being able to
carry on a conversation with a script.
It's a limited conversation,
but it is a way of gathering
information and moving forward.
And the, uh, hide this application.
In the next example,
I'm going to use a program
from BiApp Systems.
It's called GoTreef,
and one of the things that this
application does is it accesses
information over the Internet.
And I'm going to use a
script acting as a person,
a personality called Victoria.
And Victoria will act independently
of the speech recognition speakable
items in that she will have her
own set of scripts that she's
going to use in conversing with me.
So here we go.
Let's try this out and
see if she's awake too.
Victoria?
Yes, Sal?
Show my newspaper.
Here you go.
Something else?
Clear all stories.
All stories have been
removed from your newspaper.
Add multiples.
Anything else?
Add multiple stories.
Ready.
Motley Fool.
Adding Motley Fool.
Ready.
Apple Stock Quote.
Adding Apple Stock Quote.
Ready.
Apple Top Story.
Adding Apple Top Story.
[Transcript missing]
Not right now.
Goodbye.
So in this instance,
when the script was called Victoria,
which exists in the Speakable Items,
when the script loads up,
it goes to a subfolder in the
Speakable Items folder called Tasks.
And within that folder
are individual scripts,
the names of which she holds into memory.
When I say show my newspaper,
she loads that script
and then executes that.
So you have a script running a script.
And all of the commands that
Victoria were doing are not included in
the standard Speakable Items commands.
They are subsets.
So you can create these
individual personalities.
So that's just two examples of how
you can use AppleScript in speech.
And if you're interested
in how to do this,
the AppleScript website
has a complete overview.
It has an AppleScript guidebook of how
to use speech and AppleScript together.
Thank you.
Some issues.
If you're going to include
speech in your application,
then there's a few things
that you need to keep in mind.
Educate your users about how to speak.
A good example would be go to
the speech preference panel
and turn on speakable items.
And you'll see a sheet come down,
and you'll see how we explained to users
that they shouldn't pause and so on.
Let them know about background
noise being a problem.
You might want to refer them
to head-mounted microphones.
We train the speech recognizer
on North American English.
And so officially,
that's what we say we support.
That happens that it
is somewhat forgiving.
And so I'm Australian.
In our group, we have Jerome from France.
We have Devang.
Where are you, Devang?
Native Gujarati speaker.
We have Matthias,
who speaks Swiss German as
native language.
We even have Tom from the
Bronx and understands all of us.
But again, there are limits.
And localization is an issue.
Currently, as I said, we are US only.
So it's time to code.
For Speech Programming 101,
I'd like to invite Matthias
Neeracher up onto the stage.
Matthias.
Okay, now that Kim has told you
what to do with speech,
Kevin and I are going to
talk about how to do this.
Using our speech technologies
in Mac OS X is pretty simple.
We are installed in every
install of Mac OS X.
To use us,
just link with Carbon Framework,
or if you have a Carbon-based
application with Carbon Lib.
Our APIs are identical for Cocoa,
for Carbon,
the same APIs that you used on Mac OS 9.
You can use them from Objective-C,
from C, or from pretty much any language
that we ship on Mac OS X.
Let's start with speech synthesis.
Let's say you want your
application to say something.
How difficult can this be?
Turns out it's not difficult at all.
It's a single line,
and you will get... Hello, world.
Okay, that was simple enough.
If you want to have a
little bit more control,
you open a speech channel,
giving a voice.
This can either be something that you
get from a menu you give to the user,
or if you pass in null,
you get the default voice.
You probably shouldn't hard-code
a voice unless you know exactly
why you would want to do this.
Then you can adjust
parameters as you like them,
and once you have them to your liking,
you can speak the actual
text by calling speakText.
All of these calls are asynchronous,
so it will actually return control to
you before the text is entirely spoken.
We offer a lot of control.
You can control the speech rate
to speak slower for younger users,
for instance,
or quicker in a game situation,
for instance.
We can control the speech pitch,
modulation, so it sounds more lively,
the volume, to customize the way speech
sounds in your application.
We also give you callback routines,
so when you have a screen reader,
you can highlight words on
screen as they are spoken,
or if you have an animated
character on screen,
you can animate the lips of the
character as the phonemes are spoken.
You can see many of these
options in action in our
Cocoa Speech Synthesis example,
which ships on the developer CD.
Most of these controls,
you actually don't have to
write any code because you
can simply embed them in text.
So, for instance, in this sentence,
if you want to emphasize the word next,
you just embed an emphasis
command in front of the word.
Don't meet till next Tuesday.
This is very important because
to really have speech synthesis
work for you the best it can,
you should customize what is spoken.
Basically,
your application just knows a lot
more about how things should be spoken
than our engines can know by default.
So, there are a number of things you can
and should do with your application.
First of all,
you should filter the text that is
passed on to the text-to-speech engine.
For instance,
if you have a stock ticker application
and you come across the acronym AAPL,
what you should do is tell
the text-to-speech engine to
say Apple Computer instead.
Second,
you should customize the pronunciation
of words that don't come out right.
And last of all, you should customize the
intonation of what is spoken.
Now, we try to have a huge dictionary,
as Kim already said,
but even the biggest dictionary
cannot possibly handle all the words,
and not all proper names especially.
For instance, my first name is tricky.
It's certainly, our system cannot
pronounce it by default.
In the past,
some developers have just used
funny spellings to get it to
work approximately the right way,
like this.
My name is Matthias.
Sounds almost right,
but we don't recommend this,
because if you use words that are
not part of the English language,
or strange combinations,
we might change in the future
how this is pronounced.
Second, this is not a very precise way
of specifying what you want said.
So, instead, what you should do is use
embedded commands to temporarily
switch to phoneme input,
using the phoneme notation.
We describe this notation
in inside Macintosh speech.
It's explained with examples on a page.
It doesn't take very long at
all to learn how to use it,
and the result is something like this.
My name is Matthias.
Sounds somewhat better.
Second,
you should customize the intonation of
the text you pass on to text-to-speech,
because the written words alone are not
always enough to convey the meaning.
For instance, if you see this sentence,
you can read it as,
John only introduced Mary to Bill.
He didn't introduce her to anybody else.
You could read it as,
John only introduced Mary to Bill.
He didn't introduce Caroline to him.
Or you can read it as,
John only introduced Mary to Bill.
He didn't ask her to marry him.
So,
these distinctions can be very important.
So, you should...
Annotate the text you pass on.
Our system tries to do the best it can to
find out how a sentence should be spoken,
but this can be very difficult,
if not impossible,
to do in the general case.
Your application has domain knowledge
of much of the text that is spoken and
has the potential to do much better.
For instance,
take a flight reservation system.
At the end, it gives a confirmation text.
And I'm going to play you
two different versions of
saying this confirmation text.
First of all, it's not annotated at all,
and the second is annotated.
I'm not going to say anything
between the two versions.
Your first flight is with
Alaskan Airlines Flight 2762
departing from San Jose on Monday,
May 24th at 6.10 landing
in San Francisco.
Thank you for using TTS Travel.
Your first flight is
with Alaskan Airlines,
flight 2762.
Departing from San Jose on Monday,
May 24th at 6:10 p.m., landing
in San Francisco at 7:10 p.m.
Thank you for choosing TTS Travel.
So did you hear a difference?
Raise your hand if you heard a
difference between the two versions.
Excellent.
I see that the hands are up.
So we did this with quite
a bit of annotation.
And this can basically be distilled
to five principles of how to improve
the intonation of the spoken elements.
The first principle is let the
user catch up by adding pauses at
strategically important points.
Add punctuation wherever appropriate,
and appropriate does not mean appropriate
in the sense of English grammar.
Nobody is going to see what is spoken,
so feel free to add a comma if you
think a pause is necessary at a point.
Break up larger sentences
into smaller ones,
and insert some explicit pauses with the
silence command at major pause points.
So in our example,
We added punctuation, we added pauses.
All of this lets the user catch up.
Second principle is to let familiar
things go into the background by
de-emphasizing repeated words.
For instance,
if the minutes are identical,
you should de-emphasize
the second instance.
Also, de-emphasize items inferable from
your overall application scenario.
You know that you're booking a flight,
so you don't have to emphasize this word.
Third principle is to liven
it up simply by adding an
exclamation point at the end.
Fourth principle is to focus
the user's attention by
emphasizing the important words.
This can be done with an emphasis
command or simply by inserting a
colon before the most important item.
And fifth, and maybe most important,
use paragraph intonation.
Group your sentences together
into intonational paragraphs.
And the first sentence in this paragraph,
you should raise the pitch range
and then reset it for the rest.
This makes quite a bit of difference
for longer texts that are read.
You raise the pitch base and
increase the pitch modulation,
and then decrease it
after the first sentence.
And between paragraphs,
add an extra pause.
So to summarize, you should--
Customize the pronunciation
of words that you say.
If you notice that a word
you have hardcoded in your
application gets mispronounced,
use phoneme mode to get
it pronounced correctly.
You should customize the intonation
of the text that is said,
which helps the user understand the
text a lot better and gives the user a
much better overall speech experience.
Now, let's move on to speech recognition
with my colleague Kevin Aiitken,
who is not lazy at all, I might add.
Can you all hear me?
Yes, I can hear myself.
Well, my manager, Kim,
has actually assured me that
this is not necessarily a
commentary on my work ethic,
so I feel better.
But if you're like me, once in a while,
I do feel a little bit lazy.
And at those times,
I just love having a simple
solution to be really productive.
And so in the next 15 minutes or so,
I'm going to show you two easy
methods that you can use to add
spoken commands to your application.
And so hopefully,
in an afternoon's worth of work,
you can walk into your manager's office
or your co-worker's office and say,
Oh, by the way, our Mac OS X application
understands spoken commands.
So let's get started.
So as I mentioned,
I'm going to provide two methods.
So the first method is to use
the Speakable Items application
that's built into Mac OS X.
As Kim demoed in the beginning,
it's designed for end users,
so they can easily add spoken
commands to any application.
And so you as a developer
can use this also.
So it's great because you don't
have to write any speech code.
Speakable Items takes care of this
for you by taking a list of items,
building a language model,
and then waiting for
the recognition result.
And as Sal showed in his demonstration,
it understands how to execute
AppleScript so that you can easily send
Apple events to your application or
even other applications for that matter.
Now,
the second method I'm going to describe
is to use the Speech Recognition API.
You may be familiar
with this in Mac OS 9.
It gives you a little
bit more flexibility.
You can have multiple command lists,
so you can have one set of commands for
when the user has selected an object,
and one set of commands
when they haven't.
And I'm going to show you in a little
bit an example that gives you a really
easy three-step approach to adding
spoken commands to your application
using the Speech Recognition API.
Well,
one of the things that both of these
methods have in common are commands.
And so let's talk just for a second
about what makes a good command.
Well, commands are like menu items,
but we suggest that they're normally
from three to six words long.
The longer, the better, generally,
because the recognition system
can understand them easier,
and they're more unique
amongst your other commands.
But you don't want them too long
to where the user has a hard
time speaking them fluently.
Also, you should avoid single words,
and especially words like hot, cut,
and quit, because those are oftentimes
misrecognized or they sound a
light to the recognition system.
The other important item is that
you should test your commands,
especially test them together
to make sure they're not
confused with each other,
and test them with the global commands
that are shipped with Mac OS X.
And to prototype your commands,
you can use speakable IAMs or the
SR Language Modeler application
that you'll find on a developer CD.
Okay, let's talk about Method 1
in a little more depth.
And this is using the
Speakable Items application.
So the first thing, as I mentioned,
you want to create a number of items.
You can easily do this by bringing
your application to the foreground
and speaking the command,
make this application speakable.
That creates a folder in the
speakable items directory,
as Kim showed you earlier,
inside that application
speakable items folder.
And then you can begin adding
your items as he showed you.
So once you have all your items together,
the next thing is you want to bundle
those inside of your application.
So I'm going to show you a
little bit of an example.
You can use Project Builder to easily
copy these files into your application
bundle at the time you build it.
And then finally,
you need to install those items.
Now, we really suggest that you
install them at runtime.
This gives you a couple
of added benefits.
It allows your application to
be drag-and-drop installed,
so therefore,
in order to support speakable items,
you don't have to have a separate
installer to install the items.
And it's great for Mac OS X support
for multiple users,
because after your application
has been installed,
let's say the administrator
creates new users,
well, that new user is just going to
get those speakable items the next
time they run your application,
because you'll
automatically install them.
Well, let's talk about items real quick.
Kim briefly mentioned those.
It's basically any file
that can be opened.
But there's really two types
that are best for you developers.
The first are AppleScript files,
as I talked about, that allow you to send
Apple events to your application.
The other one that Kim mentioned
are the new XML-based command files,
and they allow you to send keyboard
events to your application so
that you can activate menus or
controls via keyboard shortcuts.
Well, one of the things that I wanted to
do in preparing for this WWDC this
year is create an example that
really showed how easy it is to add
spoken commands to your application.
I really wanted to make it
as simple as copy-paste-go.
So, as you saw in Sal's demonstration,
you use iTunes,
and that's a really pretty
good real-world application.
It's shipping,
and you can see how those are
integrated into the application.
Well, since I can't ship or give you
the source code for iTunes,
I thought, well,
let me create a clone of it.
So, I've named mine Fotoons,
courtesy of our
French person in the group.
And it's up on the web right now.
You can go grab it at this URL.
And hopefully you can either
grab it this week or right now,
or when you get back and
start taking a look at it.
It's really... I believe it shows
a really easy way of getting going.
So, let me go show it to you.
Here we go.
[Transcript missing]
So let me show you the application,
my clone of iTunes real quick.
It has the identical menu items.
And the window is, you know,
pretty close.
I mean, if you haven't done anything
in Cocoa or Interface Builder,
I basically took 15 minutes,
threw all the menus in there,
laid out the window,
and pretty much got an
automatic resizing window.
It's really awesome.
Okay, let me show you that it really
is listening for commands.
Show commands window.
Show speech commands window.
Oh, okay.
That's the first.
Display visual.
Oops, let me bring this forward.
Get song info.
Get Song Info.
There we go.
As you see, it doesn't do anything.
It just shows the command down below.
Okay.
So it really is Photons.
Let's switch into Project Builder,
and I'll show you how this is set up.
Let me try the command.
Switch to Project Builder.
Yay.
Okay.
Cool.
I'll move those out of the way
so we can see the window here.
I'll put this down since I'll
be giving it more commands.
Okay, so let me show you real quick.
What this basic object looks
like that manages the window.
It's really simple.
It has a couple of instance variables,
and then it pretty much has a method
for each one of the menu items,
and a couple extras to handle some
of the controls in the window.
So it's really simple.
All these methods do is
basically display at the bottom
of that window what's happening.
Okay, so as I mentioned,
the first step was creating the items.
So we've created those items.
The next step is we need to include
them in our application bundle.
So what we'll do is we'll
go to the active target.
And the way we do this is we
use a file copies build phase.
And so we include those down here.
Let me show you where you do that.
And here, if you haven't already seen it,
you go New Build Phase,
and you go New Copy Build Phase.
It's not highlighted right at
the moment because I haven't
selected a particular item.
But as you can see,
I've included the items here.
I have two sets of items.
I have the command files,
the majority of them.
And so I'm saying place these in a folder
named Command Files inside the resources
directory of the application bundle.
And then I have a single AppleScript file
that I've included in here as well.
Okay, so now Project Builder
has made that easy.
Now they're being copied when I build it,
being copied inside
the application bundle.
The next task is to
install them at runtime.
So we've tried to simplify this
a lot by providing a single
routine that you can call.
So here it is.
Install speakable items
for this application.
You'll pass in the name of those
folders that you placed your items
into your resources directory.
And then you'll call it,
and it's smart enough to go out,
creates the folder.
If the folder's already there,
it doesn't create it again.
In the case of this demo,
I actually call this routine
every time it's startup,
but you could choose to
call it lazily later,
or you could call it in
response to a user specifying
it in a preferences dialog,
or something like that.
The rest of this file has a
tutorial or documentation in more
depth than I've talked about here,
about creating the items,
adding those items to
your application bundle,
and then how to call this
routine and special notes.
So it's all there.
Okay,
let's go back to the slides for a second.
Okay, great.
So let's touch on the second
method for a minute here,
and that's using the
Speech Recognition API.
Well, you know,
just like the previous example,
I want to make it a copy, paste,
and go solution.
So we're trying to provide some really
simple routines that you can use.
So what I've done is I've broken
down the process of recognition,
setting up for recognition,
and handling the recognition
into three easy steps.
And you'll see in a minute where
I provide you with a single routine
to execute each one of these steps.
So let's talk a minute about basically
what the recognition process looks like.
This is a very simplified version of
it and a graphical version of it that
just kind of cements it in your mind
as to what this example is doing,
and in general,
what recognition process is.
what happens during that.
Okay, so step one,
we provide a routine that basically
sets up all the recognition objects and
instantiates the recognition system,
a recognizer object,
a language model object,
hooks them all together,
and that's all set up and ready to go.
Something that most,
virtually every developer
has to do when they adopt the
Apple Speech Recognition API.
The second step is that you need to
tell it what commands to listen for.
So in the routine that we give,
you pass in the recognizer object,
and then you pass in
an array of commands.
It basically gives the recognizer
object those commands to display
in the speech commands window.
Then you also pass in the
language model object,
and it gives the commands to
that so the recognition engine
knows what to listen for.
And then for the third step,
you need to implement
one Apple Event Handler,
the SpeechDone Apple Event Handler.
And so now,
your application is just sitting there,
you've set up, it's running,
ready to handle the
user's spoken command.
So when the user says something,
the recognition engine passes
this off to the recognizer object,
it then sends an Apple Event to
your application.
In this case, play this song.
So we provide you a single routine,
you pass in the Apple Event that you get,
and it returns an ID.
And then you can take this ID and map
it through a switch statement or a
table lookup or however you'd like.
To a particular action or routine.
Okay,
so let's go back to Project Builder.
And I'll show you how this is done.
[Transcript missing]
Then I call the routine to set
up speech recognition that we
provide in that utility file.
I create an array of the commands
because I need that to pass to the
add commands routine that we provide.
And then finally,
I call our SR start listening
routine that's part of the API,
and now the application
is up and running.
Page down here,
this is the Apple Event Handler.
Just a couple of lines of code.
I call the routine that we provide
in the utility file to convert
the Apple Event into the ID.
And then through the
wonders of Objective-C,
I just use it as an index into a
table and then basically go off to
the appropriate method selector.
So that's pretty much it.
I really urge you to go out and
grab this and see how this can
be applied to your application.
So let me summarize real quick.
So we saw in the first method,
using the Speakable Iams application,
that's really easy because you don't
have to write any additional speech code.
All you need to do is include those
Iams inside your application bundle
and then install them at runtime
with the routine that we provide.
The second method is using
the Speech Recognition API.
As I explained,
that's an easy three-step process
that we give you a single routine
to execute each one of those steps.
So I've discussed a lazy way to do it.
There's more things you can do
with the Speech Recognition API,
and Matthias is going to come up here
and talk about what to do if you're
feeling a little bit more ambitious.
So thank you.
Thank you, Kevin.
My manager assures me that
overachievers does not necessarily
apply to my performance either.
So Kevin has shown you how to get 95%
of the benefits with 5% of the work.
However, there are some situations where
you might need the extra 5%.
One example of this is Chess.
You've seen it demoed.
It ships with Mac OS X.
As of this week, you can get the source
code from this URL here.
You will find the speech-related
code in Chess Listener.
And Chess illustrates important
lessons in language model design.
Now you might think,
the language model of
Chess is not very complex,
right?
Pawn, D2 to D4, all simple sentences.
The problem is, if you just do this as a
list of possible moves,
it gets out of hand pretty quickly.
If you do the math,
you find out that if you just have
a model with all the possible moves,
you end up with more than 24,000 moves.
And clearly this is unacceptable.
It doesn't help accuracy,
plus you're not doing the user
any favor if you're listening
to stuff like Rook A1 to H8.
This won't do him any good at all.
In fact,
it turns out that in each Chess position,
there are only 20 to 30 moves
that are actually legal.
So there is no reason whatsoever
to include the extra moves.
Performance is going to go way up,
and user satisfaction
is going to go way up.
So you can't do that.
going to go up if you
only include legal moves.
However, you shouldn't quite
over-constraint your model.
There are some illegal moves
which are still plausible.
For instance, people frequently put their
king into check accidentally,
even experienced chess players.
So what you would want to do is to leave
a move like this in so you can say,
I heard you, but I won't do it.
Another technique that we use in
chess is to use prefabricated parts.
There are not so many words that are
actually used in this language model,
so we fabricate them at
startup by calling srNewWord
to get these word objects.
And then when we come to
a position and see that,
for instance,
pawn d2 to d4 would be appropriate,
we simply grab these prefabricated
objects and paste them together.
to form this
This command.
So to summarize,
for complex language models,
you will want to constrain your
language model to only those commands
which are plausible in each situation.
And consequently,
you adapt the language model
when the situation changes.
Furthermore, in very complex situations,
you might consider using
prefabricated language objects to
quickly get your list of commands.
To build these language models,
we've included a tool
called SR Language Modeler,
which helps you to quickly experiment
with different language models,
how well they work for your users.
SR Language Modeler allows both live
microphone tests for rapid turnaround,
if you want to try something or
grab somebody into your office
to have him try something.
If you want to do systematic
scientific research tests,
you can record your users
saying these commands,
record them into AIFF files,
and feed those files into
SR Language Modeler to get a systematic
evaluation of how well this performs.
This tool and all of our sample code,
which we shipped with Mac OS X,
you will find on the developer
CD in the examples/speech folder.
And we encourage you to start with that
if you want to do anything with speech.
So let me now turn our session
back over to our fearless leader,
Kim Silverman.
For some values of fearless.
So to summarize,
speech synthesis and speech
recognition are there.
We've given you a conceptual
overview of the APIs,
and I tried to give you some ideas
about why you would want to use them.
And Matthias and Kevin have followed
up with how to use them well.
So, I want to encourage you all
to speech enable your apps.
At this stage,
I'd like to single out just a couple
of developers who've been doing this.
You might remember Thinking Home,
which got the
Apple Design Award last year.
They've ported their application to OS X,
and they added speech to it,
and they found that that adds
a lot of value to their users.
I was talking to one of their
developers on the phone yesterday.
He said that they're
getting a lot of feedback,
saying that users just think it's
great when they can walk into
the room and say things like,
"Dim the lights in the living room," or,
"Turn the upstairs thermostat to cool."
The folk who are working on OmniWeb,
you may have seen their
cool browser on OS X.
They've been experimenting also with
using speech to integrate speech
into the browsing experience for
those that don't want to or can't
deal with the keyboard and the mouse.
We saw a prototype of that this morning.
It's looking really good.
They've got some great
ideas about how to do it.
So,
I'm going to give you guidelines of good,
better, and best about how to put
speech into your apps.
Good is the easy way.
Use speech recognition to allow people to
speak the visible controls on the screen,
things that they would normally
manipulate and say them.
And use speech synthesis to
speak simple alerts and alert
panels when they come up.
You can do these, by the way,
with either the speakable items
framework or by calling the API directly.
If you want to go better,
then use delegation.
I've mentioned this a few times.
You've probably inferred what I mean.
Normally,
when we interact with a computer,
we specify explicitly each step we
want the computer to take in order
to reach a goal that we have in mind.
With delegation,
we delegate the goal to the computer and
have it figure out the steps about how to
get there and then execute them for us.
So, group what would be otherwise
multiple interactive actions
into one spoken command.
For speech synthesis,
start to customize your texts using the
guidelines that Matthias went through.
If you want any help on those,
read back information to your users.
And if you want to be best,
then move to interactive
spoken dialogues,
like you saw Sal demonstrating,
where you delegate a goal to
the computer or your agent,
and it then comes back and asks
you questions to refine that goal.
And think about using
speech for form filling.
So that's it.
Thanks a lot for coming.
I am always--